hello welcome back to take the call
lucky to be taking David dish will be
leading the call today
so go ahead thank you
I just killed my brother so I need to
open my time okay
all right so there is everyone as the
other path open
all right so only peer to peer so we
peer to peer he's always in this call to
talk about gold peer to peer and Jesse
peer-to-peer mostly the energy that has
been put in we p2p as being like to
fulfill the needs of a PFS so like
everything that we like everything is
recessed on the roadmap for which it
appears I was like what GPFS or ago I
see past needs however especially with
recent events from the last couple of
months maybe more one more people are
interested in using repeaters here and
right now it's pretty exclusive like it
is really hard to get into because there
is no entry point there is no
documentation like basically there is no
work done in developer UX of course
there is a lot of features that need to
be built and like things that like
pub/sub are on we feel free of scope and
we already talked about - my dad's
routing the DHT and also know peteyboo
scope but go real talk about that there
is things like including connectivity
which we'll cover in a second but yeah
like one of the things that we need to
step up our game for this quarter so
that we get like we get we welcome the
community that already wants to be part
of a PDP here to join the effort and we
enable that so cool
going through the agenda so and it took
my chance that the first item in the
agenda is the robbery effects we need to
write better tutorials right now so if
it appears back it does something that
hasn't been done anywhere else but
sometimes writing aspect can like hoping
at this back is the glue that you points
for people to learn is not a good idea
what we really need is like use cases or
even a little tools will appear appear
that people can use after they can seek
I can check out and like they can see
the power I'm a strong believer of
screencasts I just like
two minute videos explaining hey I just
connected to know the four behind Nets
and now my kids are all dedicated like a
lot more strings like it works and
that's very powerful to communicate out
these things are useful one of the
things that we don't text so far is the
interface with peer-to-peer which makes
more sense than ever in in JJ's world we
already have a pseudo interface defined
because we asked so like we have two
implementations of bleep it appear
javascript and go but we actually have
3d builds of whippet appear don't wanna
choose by ipfs enjoy prefers the one
that choose by professing I pee pads for
no jails and the one that's used by ffs
in applicants for the browser so there
are three builds and this idea for the
browser note follow that same interface
so that we can change between node and
the browser without changing the code
base the discovery mechanism primitives
are the same the dialing primitives are
the same routing primitives are saying
all things I would say but it is just
like made using rule of thumb like just
trying it out and say oh this looks the
same doesn't break it works we don't
have a battery of tests to prove that B
is a p2p organization actually follow
the same interface as we do for all of
the other modules so yeah we need to get
an interface which will appear something
that people can check how it works
enough to use it and actually can have
more builds to fulfill what the picture
specific foods
cool so yeah a lot of these will be
discussed this week and like again
following the same jets IP first
proposal we need to come up with like
subtasks for these endeavors and like be
very comprehensive so that we understand
the amount of effort and energy that has
to be put onto these things see any
hands okay next up website so richard
has been working a lot on the way
peer-to-peer website and this is going
to be very important for developer
experience as well it is again it's
going to be the TLDR of the spec the the
things that you need to know the
features the where you can get example
where you can get the tutorials right
now I know rich I'm so sorry I'm like
the one blocking that because I need to
review the content but yeah like it is
an ongoing process which has put a lot
of work into it
similar to Booty formats and IPL B and
we are getting the website and it will
be then this quarter maybe at least
first version should be out this month
for sure which is awesome cool and with
the website will also come the questions
of making sure that we have the right
examples the right interfaces the right
language to explain the repute appear
and so on
cool next type is peer routing and
content routing has like we mentioned
it's my profession recipe fest so I
clearly zdt
getting a way to find content on the
network job having to dial directly to
the notes I believe this was in out like
sufficiently covered would someone like
to have anything on this this is a
market cool relay with also copper
relays like one of the things that we
know it's going to improve a lot our
connectivity but also extremely naval
like apps like orbit to work on the
browser without being worried like it
will you know apps like orbit or that
want to deploy to the browser and they
know that you will be able to dial to
any node in the network that is
accessible without having a common
transport again relays when like we have
nodes that are behind the net that needs
like they need to bear some kind of
relate to I get out of their net or when
they have different press port from the
node that's trying to dial them where
bark is TCP for example and they need
some you'll know that speaks both so
that they can get a connection going
first IDs are like a bit of overhead but
like it can use a connectivity that's a
really cool quick would you like I
cannot
cook well would you like to fill in the
quick part Quan well yes so there is a
number of quick implementations at least
one one is live quick which is
somebody's attempted extracting quick
from chromium this is not yet the
supported a supported version though the
quick team has made some directions in
that route but there's a standalone go
implementation of quick written by Lucas
Clemente he is presenting it at dot go I
think this week so there's only the
server part of it at the moment but I
actually reach out to him and talk to
him about writing the client part and so
we'll be working with him on that and he
is also going to write it into a loopy
transport and then we're also and that
feeds into the XTP work as well that I
can talk about in a moment but so quick
is a very real possibility within the
next you know few months potentially
thank you this quarter or the following
at least for go for JavaScript getting
access to quick will be harder though
the chrome team is working right now on
putting WebSockets on top of quick so
there's no head of line blocking so once
that that is there then you can get
WebSockets naturally using quick in the
browser in node it will probably take so
longer time I don't know what the story
quality is there but I think we can
probably see quick as a transport route
solution there's also an effort inside
the chrome team over getting a quick and
they need web RTC so that's like come in
they're working on yeah so oh sorry yes
we're about to see not WebSockets maybe
Oh
trying to check like networking or I
plug it cool you like to jump into xtp
because it's kind of like connected yeah
so although this transfer work requires
or we think requires this too
all that I've been calling xtv for now
XD peace external transport the point of
XP is to isolate a transport in a
different process and this is to get
around a couple of problems one is that
you accidentally ship a an
implementation that is very young and
has a ton of problems and then your
network ties this happened to us with a
UTP implantation and another problem is
the implementation may not be in a
language or distribution packaging of
your choice meaning in my B and C and
you don't want to use C go it might be
in C and you might be in the browser
like there's a bunch of thanks right so
to get around that problem xep isolates
some transport limitation in the process
and then allows you to connect to that
to some server and like control the
transport from a from an enterprise
perspective there is an interface being
written about this now and then once the
interfaces is once I'm pretty happy with
it then we can think about like actually
implementing it so this could happen
this quarter could happen exporter I
would think this is like a nice to have
I wouldn't think that unless we decide
that hey this is absolutely super
important let's just ship it which I'll
be very happy to to get to but it is
something kind of on the fringe it is
required for us to be able to go into
all these other transports like
bluetooth see it's very quick and any
other kind of thing that that what we
need to like bundle later what you'll
see
see thank you awesome it yeah they like
we can even have like browser extensions
with address words so that quick that's
kind to them or we can have broad
sit-ups that's open web RTC Pressburg
for all the rings whether the chicken
ever would you support all the other
inhibitions cool cool so the next two
items I'm proof connectivity and expert
class so it really is like a very broad
term we keep trying it around but it
really means like just making sure
that's like ipfs can hire in situations
that are kind of I'm not used to deal
with and this comes from like doing
stuff like relay packet switching better
than uh traversal
even I just making sure that we humble
connections properly because we kind of
like keep a lot of connections open for
a long time and apparently as Jeremy
says like it's impossible to kill
connections because it just come back
alive
so onto that therefore there's like
something that we really need to review
this because like it's a very again very
broad and like we need to like factor
this very broad milestone and I make it
into several smaller milestone that are
like more achievable it was known as a
mouse on - Oh bleep it appear which was
on that's really correct and we have to
rethink that and then comes the network
lab so the network lab is a name for a
thing that we have been talking about
for many months and it it's just like
having hardware a test hardware to test
in network connectivity like a bunch of
tiny computers raspberry PI's 5/64
whatever and routers that we can
configure and I can have test scripts to
run over this setup and we can act on
those situations it is
something that I'm sure that a lot of
communities will be very excited once we
get it because it's a way to test like
network protocols like setting
configuring routers remotely with
different setups and then running tests
over it is something that a it is not
easily found as an ocean-like
people still do a lot of these tests
manually or just like setting up stuff
manually and like trying to infer what's
going on if we get like this network lab
working in a wet weekend like automate
it and repeat it often like setup
different coffee questions very quickly
then we can use like leave it running
and then like almost all of these tests
for us and for other people I do know
that Jeremy has been clinging or about
it and I was already a bunch of routers
at his place that he's like working
towards getting it I also have a bunch
of brothers in my place and a bunch of
like raspberry PI's that I want to use
for this which means that we can have
even like two natural collabs across
continents which might be fun as all and
again like we don't have a comprehensive
list yet of things that I have to happen
for this because it's kind of like a
huge endeavor and you generate and
they're taking but something that's
everyone is like really excited and I
see that far just excited to because yes
his hand raised yes just a quick point
whenever you hear someone say they have
not least use ask them what what Morton
lava router they have as many of the
routers especially those ended up is
piece a crap yeah and we want to get a
model of those just to the Dennis bed
yeah that's a good point probably should
be one of the items on that killer issue
template on go ideas if people are able
to give their router description and
model
this yeah yeah all right so ten minutes
okay good
sometime the next one is ECC key is in
JavaScript so now I go support CC keys
but not on peer IDs and pyramids
actually I just like I studies recently
and I do have the chance to reviewing it
all I do know that like we want to
support multiple keys let's hike the
multi key effort and key store we now
support HC keys on the peer-to-peer
crypto do you use them for anything at
all or get we were just like exposing
that primitive and someone go in on this
yeah okay unmute yourself what are you
talking right okay yeah so they're
merged into the codebase right now and
they'll be in the o45 release but we're
probably not going to enable them for
use as pure ID keys in that release
because if you if you create if you
using an ECC key as your purity you will
not be able to talk to any peer who
cannot handle parsing the ECC keys so
anything before o45
will not be able to handle that and
you'll just like segment the network so
we're gonna push out support and one
release and then the following release
we'll be able to add that as an option
for parodies just to make sure that you
don't accidentally like oh I can't talk
to anybody
what's going on sort of thing but the
media chain people are using the code we
wrote for that and part of their signing
libraries so it's pretty cool so what
they want for the short term is having
these crypto primitive is exposed so
that they can using their code base okay
so that means like people are using the
crypto library inside like the FS
directly that's interesting I guess we
should expose that on the IP facade
so it's like people don't have to
require two times crypto libraries which
to be coming out big okay
you should bad that I think it would be
valuable to like that crypto stuff is
really it's not the I profess to crypto
it's the the p2p crypt I think and that
could be a module on its own like if
people could like selectively taken
however I don't know how you do the keys
because multi key will matter and so the
kids will have to be real world so we
preview crypto is already module of its
own what we what I was just thinking is
it might be useful to have like IP
assault sleep appeal of crypto exposed
but to the ipfs distance so that people
don't have to require again and I have
to go through like the mass of like
having different PP crypto versions and
I was like
bundling several times the same thing
although like now a little bit about boy
is getting way smaller with all the
changes to things with you and Freda was
something say go ahead feel yeah they'd
be just about the PTP Krypton module
actually it's it's getting smaller and
larger at the same time it's gonna small
in size but much larger functionality at
the moment because what I did in j/s
with the latest changes is that I
actually pulled all crypto methods
effectively that I used throughout the
PTP into the pit in crypto
it doesn't go you can like use the
standard library but you just have a
standard library so I pulled this into
the p2p crypto and so it actually does
much more down than the p2p
but it's really nice because you know
I've like it's one library and you're
like okay
I require this I have all the methods I
just like extract all of this that's
awesome
do we just make sure all those methods
are documented alright so going I
believe
we have five minutes
who won I believe we covered all the
points together there let's go to pub
subtest that so Gavin has been working
in all this and making it really cool I
see do I
and then it'll come up for you Stream
events to the client and maybe some
basic stats so the states the sensor
propagation time right now but give them
a little bit usage on it for people who
are going to develop some strategies
that's gonna kind of inform the rest of
it so feel free to I got the repo and
you guys can wear out next okay
definitely we'll check it and and work
on getting like the foot on top of these
tests net we probably can work a lot
into making all these who are agnostic
like independent of what shall we pick
you know they're just happy bastard
because after all the primitives for
dying are the same because it's the same
thing that filing and then we can use
this after to spawn alike just be
personnel they like you use bits of
tests on top of it I use the same
visualization or repurpose the same four
cups of propagation to the bits of box
but yeah that's really exciting
thank you also Ali as always for like
going through all that and like building
all of it
any I would would you like hair trial
would you have anything if you are
planning to do now from now or I know
that we are walking you by not having
for what we will be covering it with you
and do the integration but is there
anything that we can provide right now
terms of information communication
come on step off let's do this but yeah
I didn't just getting feedback on top of
this is probably the best thing
um sounds good thank you all right so we
are two minutes from the end anyone has
anything else to add to ask to know
tonight can I talk about what I'd like
to do with this all right sure please do
so hi I'm Thomas I come to you from the
land of aetherium I have a chrome
extension called meta mask and they
injects the etherium application
standard into your browser so it has
about 3,000 installs I don't know how
many concurrent users we have but I'd
like to move to an ethereal light client
built on the p2p sometime in the near
the medium term in the meantime it would
be really cool to take some of these
these tests I know this PSTN libo
existed and this is fantastic if we
could take this make it run on WebRTC
and then just put it in meta mask and
kind of hide it in the background we
could do long-running Network tests and
see how the network does on periods of
time and I would love to do this so tell
me now as you've said there's it's it's
a Debu X is a little wonky at this point
I probably read through about 30
different repo reviews and I'm not sure
where to start but I love all this stuff
and I love the modular approach
I just don't exactly know how to to
enter all of it so thank you
just probably read me somewhere that you
didn't if not if you can't find it right
another one that way we can have 20
somewhere where nobody expects it we've
been talking exactly about okay so
that's like yeah so thank you that's
exciting
let's make it happen so as as we as we
discussed doing this cause like we
definitely want to beef up our
documentation but I think we can even
like start working on it and like like
get something working and use that as an
example so that we can like cooperate in
the meantime while we don't have like
this like really beautiful Docs well
know where Mark is yeah I come on the
web RTC part so right now I deposit test
that really uses like runs everything in
node.js for them for enabling it with
the web RTC it mean to go you just have
like to add the web RTC start a sport
and on the nodes in chrome instead of
nodes
I dunno they're like like from bottle
experience or scars live like spawning
3000 nodes in browsers it's not the same
thing
you know one machine is not the same
thing I was like note so like we need we
can actually work but like probably we
can like reduce the size of the tests
for the folks I first met and then I
just get that working so that we can
deploy it on meta mats can I see the
notes coming from several machines and
connecting to this won't work hopefully
without being enemies
- Holly I'd say theoretically we you
could spin up one phantom phantom
instance and then spin up tabs on
battery so doesn't have what word you
see but we can then we can spawn one
chrome instance and you know laptops but
when you over over the browser with a
lot of artistic channels all linking
because like again what
Jafar will try to convince the browser
to try out all the other notes I
creating a huge mesh and nano if we
start like propagating messages over
those channels it's like the web part is
explored all over again just like kills
the memory of the browser so yeah we can
redo it and we can definitely a kind of
like ten or more nodes spawn on one
machine and like see it's like
propagating messages and I send a lot of
messages through Puck's up and to work
but feel nothing like 3000 like captain
that's a higher exponent we should make
sure that the that is not really
connecting to all nodes so before like
canvas puts it into mathematical and we
should make sure that the topology
forming is such that like you don't end
up with a one or a huge like super
connected mesh that it it like keeps a
degree small right like that ade sense
so then connect to like say ten nodes
each and then it may be like cycles them
so this is a this is a little bit more
functionality than what's there in flood
sub now but in it's like the beginnings
of like tree formatting but you can a
very Li start with something simple like
a gossiper inches great yeah we can have
ya got we can use a packet switch like
overlay to like have the notes to
brought the messages to all the other
ones for example or we can even be like
evil and just have a dashboard without
notes can I couldn't say like connect
like okay I'll pick that this 51 like
when we could I tell them and I chronic
test over it because I also like like
when we are running tests over all those
meta maths codes like it will just be
something that happens from time to time
we are not going to be running tests
still people are running that so it
needs to be like a very small resource
constrained thing right only you said
only to know that like the thing works
with like thousands of nodes and run
very little like message on it because
these are people like you're gonna have
these brothers running you can't just
like peg their network or prints of you
I guess
okay so yeah let's make sure that like
that is one of the items of this week
and if we come up with the thing that we
need to do and we kept working away to
this week or earlier next week to make
sure that we booked all the exhibits a
bit cool thank you this is awesome
any other thing no I guess we had our
for me it's over this was announced
meeting so like yeah think you have
money for not getting so - great see you
all I guess we will continue I mean
conversation yeah maybe so that ends our
screen calls